This project is part of FIWARE and has been made in collaboration with the TM Forum.

# Cygnus: non functional test guidelines

Being part of the “Cosmos Ecosystem”, Cygnus is a connector in charge of persisting certain sources of data in certain configured third-party storages, creating a historical view of such data.

Internally, Cygnus is based on Apache Flume, a technology addressing the design and execution of data collection and persistence agents. An agent is basically composed of a listener or source in charge of receiving the data, a channel where the source puts the data once it has been transformed into a Flume event, and a sink, which takes Flume events from the channel in order to persist the data within its body into a third-party storage.

## Testing environment

For the testing environment, is needed:

A machine for the deployment of the GEri to be tested, Cygnus. We recommend to use the Docker compilation, where you can find everything necessary to run this environment.

A machine for JMeter, the tool used to inject load and for simulating the client and collecting the results generated by Cygnus.

## Test execution 

### Preliminary setup 

Once the HW necessary for the test described previously at "Testing Environmment" chapter have been setup, the following preliminary steps need to be accomplished before to start the test process: In order to do the installation of Cygnus, a Docker instance is needed.

## Testing step by step 

The test of Cygnus must be done in two steps:

*Script configuration:*

Depending on the scenario to execute (stress, stability), number of threads, ramp-up and test duration must be configured. Host IP must be configured. On the other hand, is not necessary, but you can change the "MeasureX" and "ID" variables if you want to change values to be sent. Furthermore, delay between requests can be configured through the timer included in the "Notification" request.

It is recommended to use the planificator from the threads group. The duration for the stress tests was 25 minutes, and 6 hours in the stability case.

Finally, in order to get the results, the path to the results file must be configured in the Simple Data Writer from the script.

*Script execution:*

For executing the script, the following command must be typed in the jmeter bin folder:

`./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx`

It´s recommended to execute the command in background and nohup mode:

`nohup ./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx &`

It´s highly recommended to use a hardware resources monitoring tool, in order to measure things like memory and CPU usages, free memory, etc.

## Expected results

As output from the script, a .dat file (in csv format) is generated. This file can be used for plotting different kinds of charts, like threads number, response times, number of errores, responses per second, etc. A plotting tool (like gnuplot) is needed in order to do this.

Additionally, if a monitoring tool has been used, then different data from it is collected too. Depending on the monitoring tool, it can generate charts directly, or it can be used another tool for plotting the output from monitoring tool (for example, sar from systat library can be used for monitoring, and k-sar tool for plotting the sar output)
