This project is part of FIWARE and has been made in collaboration with the TM Forum.

# Meteor APInf: non functional test guidelines

An ES2015 Meteor OAuth handler package for FIWARE IdM.

This is a fully working OAuth handler, allowing you to use FIWARE IdM as your Meteor authentication method. If you want to use it "as is" you can just meteor add apinf:fiware to your application.

However, the package has been written to aid in understanding the mechanics of putting together an OAuth handler for any arbitrary provider. The trickier parts of the codebase are (hopefully) annotated well enough to comprehend what's going on in this bit of Meteor Magic, enabling you make a minimum number of changes for your chosen provider.

## Testing environment

For the testing environment, is needed:

A machine for the deployment of the GEri to be tested, Meteor APInf, in the same way, we need the Identity Keyrock fiware instance installed. We recommend to use the Docker compilation, where you can find everything necessary to run this environment.

A machine for JMeter, the tool used to inject load and for simulating the client and collecting the results generated by Meteor APInf.

## Test execution 

### Preliminary setup 

Once the HW necessary for the test described previously at "Testing Environmment" chapter have been setup, the following preliminary steps need to be accomplished before to start the test process: In order to do the installation of Meteor APInf, a Docker instance is needed.
Another Docker instance for Identity Keyrock will be necessary to run this test.

## Testing step by step 

The test of Meteor APInf must be done in two steps:

*Script configuration:*

Depending on the scenario to execute (stress, stability), number of threads, ramp-up and test duration must be configured. Host IP and Port must be configured too. For this purpose, the following User Defined variables in the Jmeter scripts (No_IDLE_Meteor_Apinf_estres.jmx, No_IDLE_Meteor_Apinf_estabilidad.jmx) must be configured:

* HOST -> IP or hostname of the host where Meteor APInf is deployed.
* PORT -> Port where Meteor APInf is listening.
* PORT_IDM -> Port where Identity Keyrock is listening.

Furthermore, the number of threads, the ramp up and the test duration must be configured. It is recommended to use the planificator from the threads group. The duration for the stress tests was 25 minutes, and 6 hours in the stability case.

Finally, in order to get the results, the path to the results file must be configured in the Simple Data Writer from the script.

*Script execution:*

For executing the script, the following command must be typed in the jmeter bin folder:

`./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx`

It´s recommended to execute the command in background and nohup mode:

`nohup ./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx &`

It´s highly recommended to use a hardware resources monitoring tool, in order to measure things like memory and CPU usages, free memory, etc.

## Expected results

As output from the script, a .dat file (in csv format) is generated. This file can be used for plotting different kinds of charts, like threads number, response times, number of errores, responses per second, etc. A plotting tool (like gnuplot) is needed in order to do this.

Additionally, if a monitoring tool has been used, then different data from it is collected too. Depending on the monitoring tool, it can generate charts directly, or it can be used another tool for plotting the output from monitoring tool (for example, sar from systat library can be used for monitoring, and k-sar tool for plotting the sar output)
