This project is part of FIWARE.

#AuthZForce: non functional test guidelines

AuthZForce is the FIWARE reference implementation for the Authorization PDP Generic Enabler by Thales and available at its GitHub repository. The description of the non functional tests carried out on this implementation is also published via the GitHub repository at Fiware/test.NonFunctional

##Testing environment

For the testing environment, is needed: 

* A machine for the deployment of the GEri to be tested, AuthZForce.
* A machine for JMeter, the tool used to inject load and for simulating the client and collecting the results generated by AuthZForce.

##Test execution

###Preliminary setup

Once the HW necessary for the test described previously at "Testing Environmment" chapter have been setup, the following preliminary steps need to be accomplished before to start the test process:
In order to do the installation of AuthZForce, an Apache Tomcat instance is needed.


##Testing step by step

The test of AuthZForce must be done in two steps:

1. Script configuration:

Depending on the scenario to execute (stress, stability), number of threads, ramp-up and test duration must be configured. Host IP must be configured too.
For this purpose, the following User Defined variables in the Jmeter scripts (Authorization.jmx and Create_Delete_Domain.jmx) must be configured:

* DOMAIN_NAME -> Domain used in the Authorization Requests (Authorization decision only). It must exist (can be created with an unitary execution of the create domain script).
* HOST -> IP or hostname of the host where AuthZForce is deployed.
* PORT -> Port where AuthzForce is listening (Tomcat port)
* THREADS -> Number of threads executing the script. In the stress tests, it was configured to 200, and 20 in the stability case.
* RAMP_UP -> Time to reach the maximum threads number in seconds. For example, for stress cases, it was configured with 1200. That means one user each 6 seconds will start.

Furthermore, the test duration must be configured. It is recommended to use the planificator from the threads group. The duration for the stress tests was 25 minutes, and 6 hours in the stability case.

Finally, in order to get the results, the path to the results file must be configured in the Simple Data Writer from the script.

2. Script execution:

For executing the script, the following command must be typed in the jmeter bin folder:

`./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx`

It´s recommended to execute the command in background and nohup mode:

`nohup ./jmeter.sh -n -t /path/to/script/scriptName.jmx &`

It´s highly recommended to use a hardware resources monitoring tool, in order to measure things like memory and CPU usages, free memory, etc.

##Expected results

As output from the script, a .dat file (in csv format) is generated. This file can be used for plotting different kinds of charts, like threads number, response times, number of errores, responses per second, etc. A plotting tool (like gnuplot) is needed in order to do this.

Additionally, if a monitoring tool has been used, then different data from it is collected too. Depending on the monitoring tool, it can generate charts directly, or it can be used another tool for plotting the output from monitoring tool (for example, sar from systat library can be used for monitoring, and k-sar tool for plotting the sar output)


